# Actively-Secure-Vector-OLE

Vector Oblivious Linear Evaluation (VOLE) over a finite field F is a two-party functionality that takes from a sender a pair of vectors (a,b) of length w each, and delivers to a receiver who holds a scalar x, the value xa+b. VOLE is a useful vectorized extension of Oblivious Linear Evaluation (where a and b are scalars) and it can be viewed as the arithmetic analog of \emph{String Oblivious Transfer}. VOLE has several important applications in secure multiparty computation and zero-knowledge interactive proofs. 

In the passive setting, Applebaum et al. (Crypto 2017) constructed a protocol that only makes a {\em constant} (amortized) number of field operations per VOLE entry. This protocol uses the underlying field F as a black box and makes black-box use of (standard) oblivious transfer. We present an actively-secure variant of this protocol that achieves all the above features. The security of the protocol is based on a novel intractability assumption regarding the non-malleability of noisy linear codes that may be of independent interest. The protocol adds only a minor overhead in computation and communication. 

We present a prototype implementation and suggest several practical and theoretical optimizations. Our most efficient variant can achieve an asymptotic rate of 1/4 (i.e., for vectors of length w we send roughly 4w elements of F), which is only slightly worse than the passively-secure variant of the protocol whose rate is 1/3. The protocol seems to be practically competitive over fast networks, even for relatively small fields F and relatively short vectors. Specifically, our VOLE protocol has 3 rounds, and even for 10K-long vectors, it has an amortized cost per entry of less than 4 OT's and less than 300 arithmetic operations. Most of these operations (about 200) can be pre-processed locally in an offline non-interactive phase. (Better constants can be obtained for longer vectors.) 

On the technical side, we present a new information-theoretic construction of Conditional Disclosure of Secrets (CDS) and show how to use it in order to immunize the VOLE protocol of Applebaum et al. against active adversaries.
